* Overview
{anchor: Overview}

TurboVNC is an optimized version of [[http://www.realvnc.com/][VNC]]
(more specifically, of [[http://www.tightvnc.com][TightVNC]] 1.3.x.)  On the
surface, TurboVNC behaves very similarly to its parent project, but TurboVNC
has been tuned to provide interactive performance for full-screen video and 3D
workloads.  On these types of image workloads, TurboVNC performs as much as an
order of magnitude faster than TightVNC 1.3.x, uses more than an order of
magnitude less CPU time to compress each frame, and it produces generally
better compression ratios.  As with TightVNC, TurboVNC uses JPEG compression
for image tiles with a high number of unique colors and paletted encoding for
image tiles with a low number of unique colors.  Part of TurboVNC's speedup
comes from the use of TurboJPEG, the same high-speed vector-optimized JPEG
codec used by VirtualGL.  However, TurboVNC also bypasses the CPU-hungry
smoothness detection routines that TightVNC uses to determine whether a tile is
a good candidate for JPEG compression.  Furthermore, TurboVNC eliminates buffer
copies, it maximizes network efficiency by using the largest tile sizes
supported by the TightVNC protocol, and it never uses a Zlib compression level
higher than 1.  In the aggregate, TurboVNC compresses 2D application workloads
less efficiently than TightVNC, but it generally does a better job than
TightVNC of compressing 3D application workloads.  Also, TurboVNC is much
faster across the board than TightVNC 1.3.x.

TurboVNC is the product of extensive research, in which the TightVNC encoder
was benchmarked under a variety of different real-world application workloads
and a variety of different configurations.  This research revealed several
fundamental performance bottlenecks in TightVNC, and these were removed or
accelerated to form TurboVNC.

In addition, TurboVNC provides the following features:

	* Fine-grained control over the JPEG image quality and the level of
		chrominance subsampling.

	* (Optional) double buffering on the client side to reduce tearing
		artifacts in 3D and video applications.

	* TurboVNC has the ability to hide network latency by decompressing and
		drawing a frame on the client while the next frame is being fetched from
		the server.  This can improve performance dramatically on high-latency
		connections.  

	* A "lossless refresh" feature, which sends a Zlib-encoded RGB copy of the
		current screen image when a certain hotkey is pressed.  This is useful in
		situations where image quality is critical but the network is too slow to
		support sending a high-quality image for every frame.

	* TurboVNC builds and runs on Solaris platforms (client and server) and on
		Intel-based Macs (client only.)

TurboVNC, when used with VirtualGL, provides a highly performant and robust
solution for remotely displaying 3D applications over all types of networks.

TurboVNC is capable of sending over 30 Megapixels/second of image data over a
100 Megabit/second local area network with perceptually lossless image quality.
TurboVNC can deliver between 10 and 12 Megapixels/second of image data over a 3
Megabit/second broadband connection at reduced (but usable) image quality.

TurboVNC is compatible with other VNC distributions.  See
{ref prefix="Chapter ": Compatibility} for more information.  TurboVNC can be
installed onto the same system as other VNC distributions without interference.
