* Overview
{anchor: Overview}

TurboVNC is a derivative of VNC that is tuned to provide peak performance for
full-screen video and 3D workloads.  TurboVNC is based on the
[[http://www.tightvnc.com][TightVNC]] 1.3.x and
[[http://xf4vnc.sourceforge.net/][xf4vnc]] code bases, and on the surface, it
behaves similarly to its parents.  However, on 3D and video workloads,
TurboVNC performs as much as an order of magnitude faster than TightVNC 1.3.x,
uses more than an order of magnitude less CPU time to compress each frame, and
it produces generally better compression ratios.  As with TightVNC, TurboVNC
analyzes each framebuffer update, separates large solid areas (if any), and
sends those first using a simple bounding box and fill color.  It then splits
the remaining part of the update into a number of "subrectangles", using JPEG
compression to encode subrectangles with a high number of unique colors and
indexed color or mono encoding to encode subrectangles with a low number of
unique colors.

Part of TurboVNC's speedup comes from the use of libjpeg-turbo, the same
high-speed SIMD-optimized JPEG codec used by VirtualGL.  However, TurboVNC also
bypasses the CPU-hungry smoothness detection routines that TightVNC uses to
determine whether a subrectangle is a good candidate for JPEG compression, and
TurboVNC's encoding methods tend to favor the use of JPEG more, since it is now
generally the fastest subencoding type.  Furthermore, TurboVNC eliminates
buffer copies, it maximizes network efficiency by splitting framebuffer updates
into relatively large subrectangles, and it never uses a Zlib compression level
higher than 1.  In the aggregate, TurboVNC compresses 2D application workloads
less efficiently than TightVNC, but it generally does a better job than
TightVNC of compressing performance-critical 3D and video application
workloads.

TurboVNC is the product of extensive research, in which many different
permutations of the TightVNC encoder were benchmarked at the low level against
a variety of captured RFB sessions that simulated real-world application
workloads, both 2D and 3D.  For more information on the research leading to
TurboVNC's encoder design, see
[[http://www.virtualgl.org/pmwiki/uploads/About/tighttoturbo.pdf][this report]].

In addition to high performance, other notable features of TurboVNC include:

	* Fine-grained control over the JPEG image quality and the level of
		chrominance subsampling

	* Double buffering on the client side to reduce tearing artifacts in 3D and
		video applications

	* TurboVNC has the ability to hide network latency by decompressing and
		drawing a frame on the client while the next frame is being fetched from
		the server.  This can improve performance dramatically on high-latency
		connections.

	* TurboVNC supports authentication with one-time passwords or Unix login
		credentials.  Access control lists can be used to share VNC sessions with
		only certain users.

	* TurboVNC allows security/authentication policies to be set globally for a
		particular server machine.

	* TurboVNC provides a "lossless refresh" feature, which sends a
		lossless copy of the current screen image.  This is useful in situations in
		which image quality is critical but the network is too slow to support
		sending a high-quality image for every frame.  Lossless refreshes can be
		performed manually when a certain hotkey is pressed, or the TurboVNC Server
		can be configured to send a lossless refresh automatically if the user
		stops interacting with the application for a certain period of time.

TurboVNC, when used with VirtualGL, provides a highly performant and robust
solution for remotely displaying 3D applications over all types of networks.

TurboVNC is capable of sending 50+ Megapixels/second of image data over a
100 Megabit/second local area network with perceptually lossless image quality.
TurboVNC can deliver between 10 and 12 Megapixels/second of image data over a 5
Megabit/second broadband connection at reduced (but usable) image quality.

TurboVNC is compatible with other VNC distributions.  See
{ref prefix="Chapter ": Compatibility} for more information.  TurboVNC can be
installed onto the same system as other VNC distributions without interference.
